README.md, before:

# Persistence
A topological data analysis library for Haskell.

The objective of the library is to provide users with the ability to deduce topological features of metric spaces and weighted graphs. If you have a function that takes two points in your data to an element of an ordered set (a metric, for example) then you can use Persistence to analyze the topology of your data.

Relevant files for development: Util.hs, Matrix.hs, SimplicialComplex.hs, HasseDiagram.hs, Persistence.hs, Testing.hs

Compile Testing.hs with `ghc --make Testing.hs -threaded -rtsopts` and run with 

    ./Testing +RTS -s -N<number of threads>

# Learning about Topological Data Analysis

Simplicial homology:

https://jeremykun.com/2013/04/10/computing-homology/

The Vietoris-Rips complex:

https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e503/c24dcc7a8110a001ae653913ccd064c1044b.pdf

Persistent homology:

http://geometry.stanford.edu/papers/zc-cph-05/zc-cph-05.pdf

# Major TODOs:

`Matrix.hs`:

1) Fix Gauss-Jordan elimnation over the integers.

`SimplicialComplex.hs`:

1) Fix simplicial homology over the integers (this is almost certainly being caused by a malfunction of Gauss-Jordan elimnation in `Matrix.hs`

`HasseDiagram.hs`:

1) Test construction of the directed clique complex.

`Persistence.hs`:

1) Start implementing persistent homology and/or filtration construction with parallelism.

`Testing.hs`:

1) Document the expected homology outputs for each of the point clouds.

General:

1) A more consistent, well-motivated, and concise philosophy for parallelism needs to be implemented.

See each of the files for an overview of its inner-workings.

Commit message:

added resource on directed clique complexes

README.md, after:

# Persistence
A topological data analysis library for Haskell.

The objective of the library is to provide users with the ability to deduce topological features of metric spaces and weighted graphs. If you have a function that takes two points in your data to an element of an ordered set (a metric, for example) then you can use Persistence to analyze the topology of your data.

Relevant files for development: Util.hs, Matrix.hs, SimplicialComplex.hs, HasseDiagram.hs, Persistence.hs, Testing.hs

Compile Testing.hs with `ghc --make Testing.hs -threaded -rtsopts` and run with 

    ./Testing +RTS -s -N<number of threads>

# Learning about Topological Data Analysis

Simplicial homology:

https://jeremykun.com/2013/04/10/computing-homology/

The Vietoris-Rips complex:

https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e503/c24dcc7a8110a001ae653913ccd064c1044b.pdf

Persistent homology:

http://geometry.stanford.edu/papers/zc-cph-05/zc-cph-05.pdf

The algorithm for finding the directed clique complex is inspired by the pseudocode in the supplementary materials of this paper:

https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fncom.2017.00048/full

# Major TODOs:

`Matrix.hs`:

1) Fix Gauss-Jordan elimnation over the integers.

`SimplicialComplex.hs`:

1) Fix simplicial homology over the integers (this is almost certainly being caused by a malfunction of Gauss-Jordan elimnation in `Matrix.hs`

`HasseDiagram.hs`:

1) Test construction of the directed clique complex.

`Persistence.hs`:

1) Start implementing persistent homology and/or filtration construction with parallelism.

`Testing.hs`:

1) Document the expected homology outputs for each of the point clouds.

General:

1) A more consistent, well-motivated, and concise philosophy for parallelism needs to be implemented.

See each of the files for an overview of its inner-workings.
